README.md, before:

[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/1308123512216748105?label=Pinto%20Discord
[discord-url]: https://pinto.money/discord

# Pinto API

[![Discord][discord-badge]][discord-url]

**REST API for getting information as to the current and historical state of [Pinto](https://github.com/pinto-org/protocol) and related protocols.**

Endpoint documentation can be found [here](https://api.pinto.money/docs)

This project is forked from Beanstalk. The original project can be found [here](https://github.com/BeanstalkFarms/Subgraph-Proxy). The structure of this project is kept similar to the original - from a technical perspective this will allow either repository to benefit from future developments to the other.

## Getting Started

You will need to have Docker installed on your system to start the application, as this is required for the database. You may also need to give execute permission to the docker helper scripts (`chmod +x ./docker/*.sh`).

To run everything inside of Docker:

1. Run `cp .env.example ./docker/.env`, and supply the appropriate values in the created `.env` file.
2. Run `npm run docker`. This will start both the API and postgres database
3. Stop with `npm run docker:stop`.

To run the databse inside Docker and the API on the host machine (faster for testing locally as it doesn't build an image)

1. Run `npm install`
2. Run `cp .env.example .env`, and supply the appropriate values in the created `.env` file.
3. Start the postgres container with `npm run docker:db`.
4. To run the application, `npm start`
5. The database can be stopped with `npm run docker:stop`.

After starting the database, you need to run the sequelize migrations/seeders to initialize the database state. Run the following commands:

1. `export NODE_ENV="local"`
2. `npm run migrate`
2. `npm run seed`

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/pinto-org/api/blob/main/LICENSE.txt)

Commit message:

Add cutover queries and some explanation

README.md, after:

[discord-badge]: https://img.shields.io/discord/1308123512216748105?label=Pinto%20Discord
[discord-url]: https://pinto.money/discord

# Pinto API

[![Discord][discord-badge]][discord-url]

**REST API for getting information as to the current and historical state of [Pinto](https://github.com/pinto-org/protocol) and related protocols.**

Endpoint documentation can be found [here](https://api.pinto.money/docs)

This project is forked from Beanstalk. The original project can be found [here](https://github.com/BeanstalkFarms/Subgraph-Proxy). The structure of this project is kept similar to the original - from a technical perspective this will allow either repository to benefit from future developments to the other.

## Getting Started

You will need to have Docker installed on your system to start the application, as this is required for the database. You may also need to give execute permission to the docker helper scripts (`chmod +x ./docker/*.sh`).

To run everything inside of Docker:

1. Run `cp .env.example ./docker/.env`, and supply the appropriate values in the created `.env` file.
2. Run `npm run docker`. This will start both the API and postgres database
3. Stop with `npm run docker:stop`.

To run the databse inside Docker and the API on the host machine (faster for testing locally as it doesn't build an image)

1. Run `npm install`
2. Run `cp .env.example .env`, and supply the appropriate values in the created `.env` file.
3. Start the postgres container with `npm run docker:db`.
4. To run the application, `npm start`
5. The database can be stopped with `npm run docker:stop`.

After starting the database, you need to run the sequelize migrations/seeders to initialize the database state. Run the following commands:

1. `export NODE_ENV="local"`
2. `npm run migrate`
2. `npm run seed`

## Advanced

Sometimes it may be necessary to restart the scheduled processes that scan events (in the case of adding new datapoints, or rpc failures leading to data inconsistency). Restarting these processes makes current data unavailable until the entire history can be processed again. To mitigate this, parallel tables with "indexing_" prefix are created when `NODE_ENV=indexing`. In practice, a second application instance can be created having this configuration. When the indexing tables catch up to the current chain head, a cutover can be performed to replace the "live" data with the "indexing_" data. See docker directory for the cutover queries and configuration details.

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/pinto-org/api/blob/main/LICENSE.txt)
